hey everybody how you doing dense trader
here with the FI University just wanted
to tell you thanks for joining us on
this diesel course you know it seems
like today everything out there is still
injected including the new diesel
engines which use an interesting
technology called common rail so in this
course we're going to talk specifically
about common rail efi diesel engines the
sensors the actuators and a lot about
what to do and what not to do while
tuning them so if you're interested in
learning how to get more power out of
your diesel then come along and let's
let's see how it goes
we're ready to begin this lesson about
diesel fuel injection engines but as it
turns out before we can talk about
engines in general regardless of what
kind it is we could be talking about
gasoline or diesel or even turbine
engines we have to understand the basic
premise that an engine is an air pump we
actually move air in our engine that's
the whole concept we're going to pick it
up interact together and how each one
works to complete the process of moving
air to our air pump come on let's go
check it out
well with all this talk about airflow
should start being obvious to you that
you can only burn as much air as you
have which is interesting because a lot
of wheel up to the point when you've
consumed all the air but oftentimes
would be working on a project something
like this where the amount of
restrictions in the air flow system
they're set there's nothing I can do
with a laptop or a keyboard or even a
plug-in programmer that's going to be
able to increase the amount of airflow
that comes into these controlling
something called air fuel ratio an
air-fuel ratio is nothing more than a
mathematical expression of the amount of
air that the engine is able to give us
and the amount of fuel that we mix with
it so when we talk about well while
we're on the subject of controlling fuel
or essentially what we call mapping the
engine let's talk a little bit about how
that happens traditionally there's three
ways that we could calculate or or
represent the load on the engine and
those would be speed density mass
airflow or torque based now speed
density is probably the most practical
for app
talked about the fact that the map
sensor measures the pressure and the
manifold it can actually measure
pressure anywhere can measure this is a
basic throttle position sensor it's a
mystery their device that changes its
resistance relative to the temperature
of something around intercessors
actually very much like an air sensor
except that it's designed to be in
liquid so if you have some speed sensors
speed sensors can comes with this guy
here this is a diesel particulate filter
let's take a look look in there and you
can see that essentially what happens is
the Swit coming out of the exhaust pipe
goes in here and it gets trapped so that
it doesn't come out the other end and
you well here we have a basic
turbocharger cutaway configuration where
we can talk about what this thing is and
kind of what it does and how it works
essentially we have a few different
components we have a hot section over
here made out of heavy metals deal but
it doesn't have to withstand the high
temperatures that the exhaust housing
stuff does so essentially how this thing
works is we come over here
you
number the CFM number those it doesn't
tell us the whole story you see see if M
is a volumetric so density one way that
we could easily define it in terms of de
Mille it's the mass of air that we're
trying to figure out how much mass of
air is there in the engine and we can
ok so we succeeded in getting our first
run down where we just have the stock
vehicle now we can display the bounce
temperatures there when we do that so
what we're going to do we're going to
have our calibration engineer Rob go
ahead and add some fuel we'll do a
second run and we'll come back and we'll
talk about the numbers we get
you
well we made it back safe from our big
trip to Ogden Utah we want to say thanks
to our friends at edge performance
products for helping us show you the
right way to tune your engine hopefully
in this video you figured out that
tuning engines especially these diesel
engines is pretty simple it's just a
process and understanding all the
components the basics of how a diesel
engine works and of course the
step-by-step process of making a change
evaluate
you